Welcome back.
Let's finish off this slide with the last three points.
Displaying different sized images for different backgrounds.
Again that makes sense right.
Right now in the world there are so many people with so many different size screens some people are
visiting your Web site on a mobile phone.
Some people may be on an iPad and other person maybe on a large display screen.
Everybody has different screen sizes.
So why would we want to send a large background image that works on a TV screen to somebody with a tiny
mobile screen device and we're able to easily do that using something called media queries.
And they look something like this
media queries are useful when you want to apply CSSA styles depending on a device general type such
as the screen size as you can see over here.
Specific characteristics such as the width of the view or the environment such as the size of the screen
and media queries have this general syntax where you do at media and then you give it what kind of properties
you want.
For example screen which 99 percent of the time this is where you want you want to use it for a screen
that the Web site is being viewed on.
You can also change just something like print.
And this means that this SS file will be activated when it's in print screen mode
but media queries are very simple using CSX you can actually deliver a different background image for
the various screen sizes that your side provides.
This means that you must save your images in different file sizes for them to work.
But I think just watching this it might not make sense so let me give you an example.
I have over here a Web site that will actually use as an exercise.
At the end of this section to optimize things it's a simple index file and you see the task there you'll
have to do later on.
But for now let's just focus on the fact that it's very simple it just has a hello text and an image
it loads some SS and also some javascript.
The thing we want to we really care about is the first line which flows the first stylesheet and this
style sheet over here.
As I said uses media queries and you can see over here that we have the body background being used three
times.
We have the regular way that we have seen before.
Background is yellow.
But then we also have media queries that says that we want a media query for any screen that has a minimum
width of 900 pixels.
In that case I want to load up the body CSSA to have a background with an u r l of the image that we
provide for it which looks like a pretty pretty massive image.
With a few CSSA syntaxes to make it nice and we also have a Nunda me query because we can use as many
as we want.
That says the same thing except for this time we want to say that max width is 500 pixels.
So let's see what this actually does and what these differences might be.
I have the Web site running over here and you can see that it's a very simple web site but I think it
looks pretty good especially the Stargell here.
But check this out as I changed the screen size of this
my background just turn to yellow.
And my background just turned to the image so looks like depending on the screen size images are being
loaded or it's yellow
interesting
so that's media queries at work what I'm saying is if I open up the developer tools and go into elements
we see over here that we have our styles for the body and these styles have a media screen with the
men with over 900 pixels.
So we see that any time the minimum width of the screen is over 900 pixels.
I want to apply this CSSA which makes sense as we make it smaller and smaller and we go below 900 pixels
it turns yellow and we see in the top right corner of here how it shows us the pixel width.
But as soon as we had less than 900 We have a yellow background.
And then as soon as we hit 500
because as soon as the max width is 500 pixels Well we have a u r l once again.
And you see over here that it's not calculate in the background size and the background is a little
bit.
So let's fix that.
We'll say cover save that.
There you go.
That looks a lot better.
So that's it media queries.
I'll leave resources for you at the end of the video so you can test it out yourself.
But I forgot to mention one interesting thing you might be thinking to yourself well even if the original
screen of the user let's say the user has a screen an iPad that is this size.
Are we still loading the image in the background.
I mean don't we still need to get this well let's check it out.
This is something that we'll go into and laid on videos.
But I want to show you just a nice little example I delete here.
Go to the network tap it show.
It's going to show me as soon as I refresh all the files that are being loaded for this Web site to
refresh
and I have some files here.
But if you look I have CSSA javascript I have the dog image the puppy image over here.
There you go.
But no background image because we don't need it for the screen size.
If I delete this and as soon as I make it a little bit bigger you see that the image got downloaded.
So the browser is smart enough to know to only download whatever it actually needs.
If it doesn't need the massive background image Well it doesn't need to load it and we just saved ourselves
a whole bunch of time.
I mean how cool is that.
So media queries are very very important especially if you have users they use different screen sizes
which in this day and age that's pretty common.
All right.
So there's that.
Let's go to the last two points.
Use CD ends or content delivery networks like image X and remove image meta data let's talk about these
image X is just one example of a tool that we can use.
And as you can see from their Web site what they do is well they take care of all the images for you.
They optimize them.
They deliver them.
They use something called caching which we'll talk about in performance part 3.
They are saying hey give us all your images no matter how big they are no matter how on optimized they
are just upload it onto our Web site and then we'll give you back a your.
And this you are l.
You can just plug it into any of your web sites.
So this you are all here.
I can put in an image XBRL that I get of the photo I just upload it and they take care of optimizing
it and making sure that it's a smallest possible.
And they also use something called content delivery networks.
So again something that will get into an performance part three but they allow faster access through
their servers of images instead of just uploading it ourselves.
So that's pretty nice.
And then finally this is going to get creepy.
We want to remove the photos meta tags.
What does that mean.
Well there's a really cool Web site over here that I will link to and what they do is they allow you
to remove meta tags of a photo.
And what that means is that most photos when you take a picture of them let's say with a digital camera.
Not only take the picture but also save some data about where the photo was taken what device was taken
on which we don't need on a Web site.
But most of all it's also kind of creepy.
We don't want to necessarily have an image of us maybe hiking some mountain.
And for people to see where the image was taken what my device was and all that information let me show
you by an example I have an image over here that I downloaded from the web.
It's nice simple boat picture.
If I open this and to this Web site and I click on View EXIF right look at that it shows me where this
picture was taken which looks like it was taken in and bita it gives us our GPS coordinates and tells
us all the camera information clueing that it was taken on an iPhone 4 and well that's not only do we
not want that for privacy reasons but that's also extra data that we don't need to have in our photo.
That's just extra information and extra size.
So I can click Remove and look at that.
Now I get a new photo that if I go to adjust size I see that this photo is it.
This photo is a hundred and thirty seven kilobytes.
If I go back to the original photo
let's put it side by side and for this one I just click on a just size we see that.
Is definitely a lot bigger and nothing changed in the image and we've only really saved three kilobytes.
But we were able to remove the Met attacks and this is good for performance but obviously also security
reasons.
Very cool.
So let's review using all these sick Meek's listed here.
We're able to save a lot of transfer that a client and a server need to do.
And this is a huge issue especially with images and using all these techniques we can make sure that
our web sites are performant so hopefully hold this text on the screen now make sense to you I'll see
in the next one by.